From hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel
minutes, a weekly discussion with
web developer and technologist Scott
Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan announcing
show number three 18 recorded
live Thursday, May 10th, 2012. Support for
Hanselman it's is provided by
Tellerik offering the best in
developer tools and support online@telerikdotcomandbyfranklins.net
training developers to work smarter
and now offering gesture pack
a powerful gesture, recording and
recognition system for Microsoft connect
for windows developers details@gesturepak.com. In
this episode, Scott talks with
Pete Brown about making real
stuff. Hi, this is Scott
Hanselman. This is another episode
of Hansel minutes. And today
we're talking to Pete Brown.
Pete has been on the
show a couple of times
before, and they do it
on this developer's life. But
Pete and I always have
fun when we talk. So
I wanted to chat with
Pete today. How's it gone
now? Good. How are you
doing Scott? Pretty good. I
just, I'm just literally, as
we're sitting here, got into
my office and a Fitbit
came in the mail. If
you remember, I was playing
with a Fitbit a couple
of couple of years ago
and it, it died. Did
you ever try a Fitbit?
No, I think my wife
was interested in one, but
you know, my, my exercise
Generally walking from upstairs to
downstairs might Commute to work,
right? Yeah. My, my exercise
is usually rolling out of
bed directly onto my iPad.
Right. So, so did you,
is this something you ordered
or just like random products
showing up? I'm trying to
do it. Yeah, of course.
There's always random product showing
up at my house. No,
I wish no. I just,
I just kind of rebooted
my fitness life about three
weeks ago when, when it
got sunny and the thing
is, man, you know how,
like nobody wants to admit
that they have that stuff.
It's called sad, seasonal affective
disorder, which is the, I
get depressed when it's not
sunny disease, which is like
most of the year up
there. Right. Yeah. Which is
basically always right. But, but
man, when the sun comes
out, it is just like
dancing in the streets in
Portland. I tell you, there
was a, there was this
amazing science fiction. I can't
remember who this was. It
was a science fiction, short
story that they made us
read when I was in
eighth grade. And it was
so unbelievably powerful. It was
about these kids who all
live on Venus and it
rains always. And what I
mean, always, I don't mean
just 24 hours a day.
It rains 24 hours a
day, 265 days a year
or whatever. Venus here is
always. And every, I think
11 years the sun comes
out and it stops raining
for like 10. So the
first part of the beginning
of this short story is
the building up of this.
It's depressing and it's draining
and they've lived their entire
lives and they've only ever
seen clouds and rain. And
then the sun comes out,
but there's this little girl
that they're really mean to,
and without thinking on the
day that the sun was
going to come out, they
lock her in a closet
and she ends up. Yeah.
And she ends up seeing
only like a sliver of
sun to the door and
then comes out like as
the sun is gone and
then she has to wait
11 years to see the
sun again, you just totally
make me sad. It's like,
Yeah, I'm picturing well, that,
that may be sad, but
so we'll need to, it
can only go up from
there, right? No, that was
in eighth grade. That made
me cry. Like a baby.
Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I
I'm picturing like Seattle and
Portland, that whole area up
there, like some big 80
song and dance number, you
know, like everybody's out in
the street and confetti and
throwing up their hands and
stuff. Yeah. That's pretty much
like, it it's like that.
Yeah. That's what I thought.
But I'll give you an
example though, of something extremely
Portland. We were, this is
like a classic Portland. I
don't know how it works
with anywhere else in the
world. Cause I've only ever
lived here, but my wife's
in school right now. So
I watched the kids on
the weekends and it was
a Saturday and I was
like, okay boys, what do
we want to do today?
Like, I don't know, what
should we do? So I
go to like, this PDX
PDX is the code for
Portland. I go to this
PDX calendar website and it
says, Oh, there's a pirate
scavenger hunt today. I'm like,
okay. And it's in the
Hawthorne part of town and
Hawthorne is the most granola
part of town. So like
you're more likely to see
a lot of white people
with dreadlocks and sandals and
Mo in bare feet than
anywhere else in Portland. It's
just a very clever classically
Portland place and pirates apparently.
Yeah. So we go there
and it is literally a
pirate of scavenger hunt. There
are like adults, full adults
dress like Jack Sparrow, wandering
the streets, looking for stuff.
And it's all coordinated by
this, this dollar store. And
basically the idea was they
wanted you to visit all
the local businesses and then
every local business had a
challenge. And the challenge was
in basically related to you
knowing their products. So it's
like, you know, go to
the futon store and find
three pieces of pirate gold.
And they're no hidden under
the futons that they want
to sell, but the kids
just loved it. And everyone
gets dressed as a pirate
and get pirate booty and
candy. And it was just
got just a classic Portland
thing to do. But you
can only do that for
the 12 days of the
year that it is sunny
in Portland. So anyway, it
got sunny and suddenly I
got all the energy in
the world and all the
vitamin D decided to start
working out in earnest, again,
trying new diabetes medications and
like really working at it.
And I work out, but
now I'm really working out
to the point where I
hurt. Right. Sure. If that's
a good thing or not.
So I'm like, well, my
Fitbit had been broken cause
I washed it. I'll usually
break it. Yeah. Yeah. So
I washed my Fitbit and
now I went and got
a new one because they
have a new Fitbit it's
called the Fitbit ultra. So
it's a wireless pedometer that
watches your background movement. It's
effectively a gyroscope. And what's
nice about it is that
you, if you don't want
to, it just picks up
the data by walking by
your computer. Right. So I'm
guessing that you plan the
washing of the old one
just to get the new
one and have an excuse
for your wife. That would,
that would not be true,
but I could totally see
where you would think that.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I think
you're just saying that would
not be true. Sure. If
Rachel listened to this podcast
okay. Possible considering that she
has been on the show
now there's, there's, it's very
possible that she might get
me in trouble. Right. Right.
But the point is that
you got to understand that
I'm plugged into an insulin
pump, which is doing stuff
to me 24 hours a
day. So the idea of
like plugging something into me
to get more data is
totally reasonable thing to do.
Like everyone should do that.
You're like just shy of
being an access point at
this point. You know, actually
I am an access point.
I have a clear 4g
hotspot that I put in
my bag because I keep
using more than four gigs
on my iPhone data plan.
So it's on most of
the time as a way
to keep me from going
over. Okay. If, if the
pirate thing didn't have people
screaming nerd at their, at
their speakers here, then I
think that maybe just did
it. Yeah. Well the next
part is that I used
allowance to buy the, the
Withings scale. So wifi scale.
Oh that, yes. I saw
that it was at like
one of the big trade
shows and I thought, who
on earth would buy one
of those? And I think
I have the answer now.
Yeah. Thank you very much
for that. And when you're
making the argument to the,
to the wife or the
spouse, it's like, but it
automatically recognizes the user, you
know, like that, that, that,
like from my perspective, that
should be enough to sell
it, but he knows who
you are. You know? It's
like, it's like buying a
more expensive car because it
has preset power seats. Yeah.
Yeah. I mean, so what
does it do? Like, can
it, can you program it
to like insult you and
stuff or motivate you? Stuff
like that. Although interestingly, if
you go to the website
and you look at their
clip art, when you show
up there, there's a picture
of the scale. And then
the LCD screen says, hi,
H I, yeah. Which I
immediately took to mean you're
too fat. I can't even
give you a number. So
I'm just going to put
the number. Hi Tilt. Yeah.
That's cause that's what an
insulin pump says. When you
go over 400, it's like,
no, I have no idea.
You're high. Like, you know,
stratosphere Tips for listeners don't
ever greet you with just
a high, it should be
a low. So walk up
to me and just say,
hi, I'm going to immediately
take insulin. And that will
be extraordinarily bad. So the
thing that I thought was
interesting about these is not
just that I'm a, you
know, a fat person getting
less fat, but more that
it's body hacking and hardware
hacking. And I know you
have an interest in that
kind of stuff. And it
made me wonder if, if
these things had open SDKs
that you could plug into,
wouldn't you be more likely
as a geek to want
one, Oh, heck yeah. You
know, it's, it'd be almost
worth getting some of the
diseases that some of these
things treat just so you
can, you know, hook up
these tools, Just like, Oh,
I'm sorry, I'm eating this
cheesecake. Cause I need diabetes
so that I can exactly
scale so that I can
hack into it. Exactly. It's
for science. Exactly. Exactly. But
yeah. I mean, if they
have like open protocols and
stuff and you know, safety
factors aside because, you know,
that's, that's a separate issue,
but like one of the
things I always like, what
was that, that sleep device
that you and I both
tried, that we had looked
on the  like, I,
I wanted stuff like that,
that you could hack. Like
I wanted it to be
able to send data to
things of my choosing and
I don't know what the
heck I would do with
it. Figure out what I'm
dreaming about at night maybe,
but you know, I wanna,
I want stuff like that,
that I can hack into.
I mean, having it be
open hardware and having it
be, you know, open protocols
and stuff is a big
deal for these devices. I
don't, I don't understand why
this isn't the immediate first
obvious thing. I mean, people
go and build these companies
and then build a whole
website around it and a
whole data system around it
and all these things. Why,
why do that? Why not
build it and say, look,
I have some open hardware.
You guys go and build
a website because the Fitbit
guys have been fooling around
with their website, trying to
get it right for a
long time, you know, a
couple of years. And it's
just not very good. The
product is amazing, but the
website is so other people
have hacked into their stuff
and made better, you know,
better Fitbit sites, like the
alternative sites for you to
look at Fitbit stats. Right.
They would have done that.
Had you just said, Hey
FYI, Some companies. And I
don't know what Fitbit's background
is and like where they
came from. But some of
these hardware companies totally get
that and they start off
that way. And then you
get sites like patchbay right.
It's PA C H U
B E. Okay. That sort
of grew up just for,
just for that reason to
make it so everybody can
connect their devices and stuff
to it. But no, seriously,
some do. And you'll find
a lot of those on
Kickstarter. That's one of my
favorite places to hang out
lately. But then other other
ones just have that kind
of old school mentality around,
you know, they need to
provide the whole product. And
maybe that's what most consumers
want. I don't know. Well,
Kickstarter, I mean, man, every,
it seems like everything innovative
is coming out of Kickstarter.
Have you seen the pebble
watch? No, I haven't seen
that. Oh, great. Google. Or
is that the, No, go
ahead. No, this is the
wa so this is the
tragedy of too, is that,
you know, they, they come
up with all this amazing
right. ProSoft research stuff. We
even bring products to, to,
to market. And then like,
w it's like the standard
Microsoft thing is one year
after we come out with
an amazing innovative product and
then shut it down. Yeah.
Someone else comes out with
the same thing. Everyone's like,
it's amazing. It's a watch
a smart watch, an internet
connected smartwatch. It's a brilliant
idea. You know, after having
spent the last year crapping
on the smartwatch. Yeah. So
10 years ago or whatever
it was that we first
came out with a spot
watch. Right, Exactly. Yeah. So
the pebble watch is this
watch, and this is what
it's really brilliant. You can
see the get pebble PEBB
ele and it just hit
$10 million on Kickstarter. No kidding.
$10 million. That, that, that was
their original goal was a
hundred grand. Let's see. Okay.
They have paper watch. Yes,
there is. What's great. Is
E paper. So it's effectively
a Kindle screen, which means
that it's going to have
a longer battery. Yep. It
hit a million dollars in
28 hours and they're going
to have an SDK for
it. And they're going to
have, like, you can control
music with it and they're
going to have different apps
you can download. They just
have some different ideas, like
rangefinder and run. And of
course, you know, plugging it
into my, my blood sugar.
My pump is gonna be
the first thing I'm gonna
want to do. Oh yeah.
Unclear if I'll be able
to do that, but you
can try. I can try
exactly Right. Yeah. This, I
remember seeing it thinking this
was gorgeous. I, for some
reason, was this the one
that needed an iPhone to
program it was that what
it was? I think so.
Yeah. I think that now
it's going to support Bluetooth
four and then the presumption
is, it will, as long
as it talks Bluetooth, anyone
could do anything, could talk
to it. Okay. Well, that's
very cool. Yeah, totally. I
just think that's a brilliant
idea. Yeah. We have this
weird watch of some kind.
I do. I've got the,
the, the TEI watch sitting
in the back in my
closet here, but it was,
they had a lot of
stuff that was kind of
proprietary about the, you know,
use their compilers and the
STK and the kind of
the usual microcontroller things. So
I just haven't had a
chance to do much with
it yet, but I got
it when they were, you
know, it was one of
those things. You, you said
you went to this conference
and you got it. Dirt
cheap. So I did that
and I got it, but
I haven't done anything with
it yet. Right. I think
it was like $19. Right.
It was crazy cheap. Yeah.
And the idea was that
it's an open SDK and
then the TEI wash that
you, that you and I
have was really just a,
a prototype in the sense
of like, here's a playground.
What if we, what if
we were coming into the
watch world, what would that
look like? And it was
One of their sort of
dev kits for one of
their processors. I don't remember
if it was the Stelara's
or, or one of their
other processors, but I think
that was sort of the
big, the big thing about
it is like, here's a
cool idea for how you
could use our processor. Right,
Right. Right. The interesting thing
about buying something on Kickstarter
is the, is the kind
of the dream of what
it could be. Yup. Cause
you know, they have a
great really polished video and
they've got a prototype that
they've kind of wrote out
of plastic and they built
up and they're off trying
to figure out how to
build this thing. But it's,
it's unclear if it's going
to be everything that we've
dreamed, but the vision people
have paid into, you know?
Yep. Yeah. I mean, I
have funded a number of
projects on Kickstarter. I think
you have as well. Cause
there's just, I mean, there's
a lot of cool stuff
on there. Not just from
kind of open hardware, which
is definitely very cool, but
even like, there was a
local band that wanted to
get a CD done and
I sent them funding their
way and a kid's monster
alphabet book. I mean, there's
just all kinds of stuff
on there. How, what, what's
the average price that you've
been paying? I, it depends
on what the reward is,
but it's usually like 20
ish, you know, for different
things. Interesting. Because the thing
with Kickstarter is that like
I was explaining Kickstarter to
a friend recently and they
were like, well, so are
you investing? I was like,
well, I'm kind of investing.
I mean, I'm investing in
the way that I am.
I am pre-ordering. And in,
in the pre-ordering I am
expressing my confidence that this
is going to be awesome.
Right. Exactly. The way I
use it. Cause my wife
was like, what? You're giving
people money. You're like, you're
acting like a VC here
and you're not getting anything
in return. Right. And I
said, no, no, no. I'm
generally only funding things where
I'm getting something reasonable in
return. So yeah. I'm totally
kind of mercenary about that.
Right. You're you're funding, you're
funding their dream, but it's
not like you're giving them
thousands of dollars. Right. It's
it's not like a VC
or an like, it's funny,
actually a lot of people
have been calling themselves like
angels. Like I noticed like
Tim Ferris is like, I'm
an angel investor. So apparently
if you give someone 25
grand or 50 grand, you
can be an angel now,
which I think is a
lot of money. But I
don't think if I, you
know, I don't think of
someone being an angel investor,
if they're giving someone on
the order of thousands of
dollars, as opposed to giving
them, I don't know, a
couple of hundred grand or
something like that. Right. But
am I an angel investor?
Because I spent a hundred
dollars on a, on a
pebble. Yeah. Why not? Yeah.
I'm just looking at like
some of the projects I
funded here and it's like,
like the Atari history book,
right. That remember that idea.
Yeah. I mean this one
has already been funded and
it was, who's working at
Kurt Vendel and Martin Goldberg.
Right. Okay. So that's really
cool book. It's like the
comprehensive history book of Atari,
something that would not get
printed without this kind of
funding and you know, you're
getting a copy of it.
And then there's a layer
of the clockwork book, which
is a nice book that
has like a foil cover
and hand drawn steam, punk,
illustrations and stuff. So yeah,
there's a lot of cool
stuff on here. I'm looking
at back 20 some odd
projects. Have, have you received
any of these yet? No,
actually. Cause I've only been
backing recently, so I'm looking
here. Oh no. I did
receive the CD from the
local band, which wasn't bad,
but I haven't received a
bunch of other stuff yet.
Cause most of these seem
to take, I don't know,
six months from the time
that the, you give them
the money before they actually
get something in production. Yeah.
Or longer even it's it's
interesting. I have done a
lot of Kickstarter stuff, but
I haven't received really anything.
You know what I mean?
Other than emails with updates
of what they're working on.
It's, it's, it's hard to
put together a piece of
hardware or hardware product. Oh
yeah. I mean like the,
the monster alphabet book, which
is, you know, just a
book with a lot of
nice hand, drawn hand, illustrated
alphabet stuff for kids, I'm
hoping my kids don't outgrow
it by the time I
get it. But that like,
I just finally got an
update from them that they've
got their boxes of books
in, are going to start
shipping it out soon. So,
so that could be kind
of cool. The hardware projects
on there, unless you're doing
something like really populous, like
yet another iPad holder, which
there are always zillions of
those on there. They, they
seem to have difficulty getting
funding. A lot of those,
like some are just playing
cool. But then there are
other things that are really
kind of niche that are,
that are taken a while
to take off like this
there's one here, there's this,
the play surface, which is
basically a surface, right. This
guy has got it on
here and he's offering kits
to build your own surface.
Okay. That's good. Sounds like
a good thing. How much
is that? Well, see the
here's the thing is it's
there, what's it 150. If
you want a PCB two
50, if you want PCB
and electronics and it starts
to get fairly expensive. So
like this is one that
I think is a really
cool idea, but I look
at the cost and think,
well, you know, that's not
kind of in line with
what some of the other
projects go for. I mean,
because I think the things
that are really successful are
the projects where you're getting
your, you're not only funding
these guys, but you're actually
getting a pretty good deal
upfront because you funded them.
Exactly. The ones where it's
like here, you're also going
to fund our R and
D costs tend not to
do so well, even though
you would think that would
be the idea behind it.
Well, that's what I thought
was great about the pebble
was that it was $115,
which is a little expensive
for an electronic watch, but
you know, definitely cheaper than
way. That's awesome. It shows
up in target. Yeah. I
think that is $115. Seems
like a reasonable, expensive gadget
price for something like that.
Watch I would say. Yeah,
exactly. And that's kinda what
I'm counting on. Have you
noticed any of these guys
using like Arduino or net,
do we know, are these
different kind of like gadget
assembly kits or are they
doing all this stuff? Yeah.
Some of the kits are
like Arduino and stuff. I've
noticed. I haven't, I did
fund early on, but it
didn't go through one project
that was a.net micro framework
board. But quite honestly, I
mean, net MF is a
much smaller audience than Arduino
or something is so those
it's really hard for them
to get funding on something
like this, but okay. They
know that or would I
even have to know like,
would the pebble be based
on that? And I would
have, I wouldn't even know
what was inside. It Usually
they'll tell you, like, they'll
say, Hey, you can program
it in X, Y, or
Z. Right. So it kinda
depends. And then there's yeah.
I mean, for the ones
where they aren't telling you,
I don't know. I like
there could, there could be
ones out there, but it
seems unlikely. I mean, most
of the ones where they
aren't telling you what's inside
it, they're usually they just
have a chip and they're
coding it and C right.
Doing it, doing it from
scratch. Yeah. I mean, it
seems to be the Haven
for like open source stuff,
not so much software as,
you know, open source hardware
and open, open source designs.
Like that's always a big
selling point. Like they'll, that'll
be part of the title,
you know, open source, whatever,
like open source, CNC, machine
opensource, you know, microcontroller. And
so that's obviously a very
important thing there. And also
Inventables has started getting into
this as well, where Inventables
was a site that always
just had kind of interesting
things on there. But now
they're doing a little bit
of a Kickstarter model where
you basically preorder things. And
if the preorders get up
to a certain number, it
starts the factory and they
start making this stuff. What
is Inventables, if you go
to inventables.com, I presume that
I could go to the
website and find out, but
what, Oh yeah. So sorry
that Scott Go to your
browser type in G O
O G Dart run. Yeah.
So, but if, if you
go there, so they, Inventables
has lots of really just
kind of unusual pieces of
material and stuff that you
can use to make things
like they'll sell you plastic.
That will keep it shape
after you've put it in
water for a second, right?
Like, you know, just like
sheets of plastic that you
can deform and then heat
up and then they keep
their shape. Or there'll be
like other bits on there,
like, like maker slide type
stuff, which is a, you
know, an aluminum extrusion that
you can put the groove
wheels on and kinda make
linear motion stuff out of
light. So they have a
lot of things like that
and putties and just kind
of really random things that
companies have produced, but are
typically only available in really
large quantities to, you know,
to regular manufacturers. You can
go there, pay more for
it. You know, you're not
buying it in quantity, but
you at least have access
to it. But they have
again started putting together like
real projects and kits. There's
a CNC machine on there.
There's a three D printer.
I think there's a laser,
a laser cutter on there.
And some other stuff where
if the orders get to
a certain number, then they're
able to go and start
the factory as they call
it and preorder the things
and get them to everybody.
So Kind of cool stuff.
I'm glad that you brought
up a three D printers.
Cause I was over at
star Trek, which is a
conference in Ohio a couple
of days ago. And I
saw my friend bill Steele
who quit Microsoft awhile back.
He kind of retired and
is now working on marketing
three D printers. And we
talked very briefly while back
about three D printers and
the concepts behind three D
printers and stuff like that.
But I don't think I
really got, I don't think
I really got it. And
then I saw it print
stuff. And then yesterday my
son's bicycle broke the a,
what do you call it?
The peddle fell off. And
I looked at it and
it's like the molded kind
of injected molded plastic pedal
fell apart. And I said
to myself, well, this is
like a, it's like a
$10 bike. It's like a
dude. I was like a
target disposable bicycle, but I
don't want to go on
a throw away this bike
just because this thing broke.
But I'm thinking to myself,
this would be the perfect
scenario for a three D
printer. I could just print
him a new pedal. Yeah,
Yeah. I mean, and then
there's all the, you know,
the action figures that aren't
out there that your kid
wants suddenly you're printing action
figures in the basement and
other toys and adapters to
go between Lego and, and
connects and tinker toy and
everything else. So there's, there's
just tons of stuff you
can go do with a
three D printer. Yeah. Yeah.
I mean, do you have
one, have you made anything
with three D printers? I
don't have one yet. So
I'm, I kept going back
and forth between buying and
building and they're expensive enough
that I'm like, wow, I
don't know that I want
to spend that kind of
money on buying one, but
then a lot of the
build ones out there, aren't
really what I'm looking for.
So I'm sort of in
that weird limbo space where
I can't make up my
mind and I really just
need to go and do
something one way or the
other. Yeah. Well, my buddy
says that he he'll sell
them for a, a thousand
dollars is not again, that,
is that a good deal?
Yeah. A thousand dollars is
about right for like the
mid range stuff. I think
rep like rep rap, which
it looks like from the
picture I saw, he's kind
of based on is anywhere
between, you know, 400 and
a thousand dollars, depending upon
how much of the stuff
you make yourself versus buy.
Then the MakerBot, there are
new one that replicator is
like 1700. If it has
one print head in 2000,
if it has two print
heads and then there's Ultimaker,
which is another one, which
is really nice and very
fast. And that's like, I
think it's about $1,300, But
then you have this all
sounds like a lot of
money, but I know I
spent a thousand dollars for
my first laser printer. Yeah.
I mean, it, it really
is a lot of money.
Like it's a lot of
money to part with all
at once, but the utility
of something like that is
just amazing. I think more
than a CNC machine and
more than just about anything
else, I could see that
getting use. And not just
if you have kids, cause
I don't know about you,
but I would definitely be
making tons of stuff for
my kids. I think they
would find it cool. And
I would probably even stick
it upstairs on the table
and let my kids design
stuff themselves because it's, it's
just that easy to use
in a lot of cases
here, but there's also just,
you know, little things that
you need, like people make
holders for their headphones, you
know, just little like adapters
that you might need that
might cost you hundreds of
dollars to say attach a
camera to a microscope or
something like that. Right. Right.
Well, the idea that I
like so much about it
is that I can ship
something from overseas and pay
Lord knows what for all
the shipping and the gas
and all that kind of
stuff. But if I, if
everyone had a, a, a
three D printer, they could
just say, Oh, I need
to come. I'm going to
print a comb. Yeah. I
could just imagine like, Oh,
like five years from now,
maybe even three years from
now, we all have three
D printers. Right. And this
pedal falls off of my
son's bike. I go and,
and scan the broken pedal
with an iPhone app. Maybe
I pointed at the pedal
and it gleans that it's
3d figures it out. Right.
Yup. And then repair it
digitally and then print it
out. Or you go to
some, or you go to
like a manufacturer website or
you go to like some,
a place like thingy verse
or something and somebody else
has already designed one and
you just download it and
print it. Right. So that's
actually where folks are getting
a little concerned that the
lawyers are going to start
stepping in because they've kind
of stayed out of it
so far, but you know,
they're not going to stay
out of it forever. Do
you think that you think
I'll be able to go
to office Depot in five
years, buy a three D
printer or is there too
much calibration and too much
complexity? Well, there are several
out there that are starting
to be very like, like
just plug it in and
it works. So I don't
know about five years, but
I can definitely see this
happening. Cause they're already online.
You can buy some that
you just, you bring it
home and that's it. And
then there was there's one
that's specifically meant for kids
where it's completely sealed. It
looks kind of like a
toaster almost, you know, and
it's got a little window
in it. You can see
what's going on, you upload
the design and that's the
end of it. So I
could definitely see this stuff
becoming really mainstream. I mean,
laser printers, certainly weren't mainstream
for a long time and
color printers. Weren't mainstream for
a long time. And this
is far more enabling than
any of those things. Is
it, is this the beginning
of that kind of replicator
from star of star Trek
where it's just like, I
need this. And then you
just said, go ahead and
give it to me. Cause
like right now they're all
kind plastic and they're one
color. And unless you want
to switch the ink out
or the, the ink rather,
but the plastic stuff in
the middle, it's going to
be all one color. But
could you imagine where they'll
figure out mixing and we'll
be able to go and
make like print and action
figure? Yeah. I, I do
think that we're, we're getting
there, like the commercial ones
can do that. Cause they
use sort of like an
inkjet, almost technology that's in
like a powder bed and
they can already do multiple
different colors and, and print
all that stuff. Right. They
also have ones that do
printing of metal. And then
I saw something where there
was a three D printer
that not so much 3d,
but at least it can
do two D was putting
down traces on a circuit
board. So you could print
a circuit board, you could
print all the hardware that
goes with it. I'm not
sure how much hand assembly
would be required afterwards, but
it's definitely getting to the
point where you'll be able
to just plug something in
and say, you know, I
want some new star Wars
action figure and it prints
it out. But the real
big question for me is
going to be, you know
what ha like what happens
with the companies in this?
Are they going to start
making available as a product,
like a downloadable design? And
there's going to be some
legislation that says you can
print it once and then
it disappears. Or you're like,
how is that going to
be handled longterm? Right. Right.
Or if you, if I
printed an Oregon, there's no
sales tax. But if I
printed in whatever there is
sales tax, I mean, you
know, whether or not you
can copyright these things and
how much people can share
them and stuff is starting
to become a concern with
different people. And the hope
of course is that it's
going to be open for
a long time. But you
know, think about how the
software industry started way, way
back and kind of most
everything was open for a
while. And then eventually you
started getting, you know, a
lean towards far more proprietary
stuff and that made it
much more consumer friendly. Cause
everything was in a box
and you got it, but
you did lose freedom as
part of that. Yeah. I,
I can't, I can't, I
have as much say though,
I can't think of a
time that I've been that
jazzed about something though. I
mean, the idea that I
could print, like replacement parts
was the most attractive aspect
of this, you know what
I mean? Yep. Yep. Because
the boys are always breaking
something and you could, And
presumably, you know, you can
print a plastic jewelry. There
you go. Right. Or if
you get the ones that
can print metal eventually, then
you could certainly print all
I, you can purchase basically
anything Could, could you like,
isn't there a limit of
size? Like if one of
the boys broken arm and
an action figure, they know
they have like, It's a
good thing. You added on
an action figure for a
second. I thought you were
asking about printing a replacement
arm. No, no. I'm just
thinking like, you know, small
stuff like that has real
detail. So the Neatest MakerBot
will print something that I
believe is about the size
of a loaf of bread.
No, that's pretty big though.
I want to print something
that has a lot of
detail, like the fingers of
an action figure. Yeah. So
The, a lot of the,
the current printers that basically
melt plastic and extruded out
of a nozzle, they do
have an issue where they're
only going to get so
find a resolution cause it's,
it's building things up with
just layers of plastic. And
when you look at them,
you can actually see the
kind of the stair stepping
on it, but there are
other technologies and there are
some open source projects, as
well as some closed source
projects going on where instead
of extruding a plastic, they're
hardening a liquid resin. So
they have a, a, like
a projector, like you would
use to project stuff at
a presentation, right. And they
have this resin that will
harden at certain wavelengths of
light. And so it basically
projects the picture on the
top of that, that layer
hardens. And then the whole
thing moves up some tiny
fraction of a millimeter and
then it prints the next,
the next one. And so
the resolution there is roughly
the same as a projector.
So, you know, 1600 by
whatever over say like five
inches by five inches. So
those are, you know, if
they might have a very,
very fine texture, but they're
absolutely going to be able
to print fingers and do
all that. That's pretty amazing.
I might be a little
early then if I jump
in now, this will be
like, I'll buy a 300
DPI laser printer. And then
the 600 will come out
like two days later. But
you know how this stuff
is, is always something coming.
And that's, that's part of
the, kind of the paralysis
that I have, or I
would really want one of
those liquid resin printers, but
also the liquid resin is
really expensive. And you have
a big VAT of toxic
resin in your house. Whereas
the, the, the extrusion ones
do a pretty decent job,
but they aren't so toxic.
There are some fumes given
off as it melts it,
but nothing like the, the
resin process does and they're
getting better every day. And
if you get an open
source design, most of those
can be, you know, kind
of hacked and modified over
time to get better and
better. Very cool. It's always
fun to talk to you
about building things, people. Yeah.
I love building stuff. It's
kind of my therapy to
account for all the time.
I spent staring at a
screen. Yeah. Making things with
your hands or making physical
things that will exist and
can't be easily deleted is
a nice way to get
over making things that will
be obsolete next week. Yes,
absolutely. Thanks for talking to
me today. Hey, thanks, Scott.
Always fun. This has been
another episode of Hanselminutes and
we'll see you again next
week.